[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: Do you
believe you're brainwashed?
Most of us would say
no, but we might want
to take another look at that.
RJ Spina is here
with us today to talk
about the nature of how our
mind takes in impressions
and information and what
constitutes brainwashing and so
much more.
We're even going into real
manifestation, et cetera.
Very misunderstood subjects
and what I love about you,
RJ, welcome, it's the first
time I've had you here,
is that you truly
understand the nature
of the architecture of mind.
And wouldn't it be nice if we
had a manual, a user's guide
to the mind starting
in kindergarten?
>> RJ SPINA: By the way.
It would be very helpful.
That was really the crux of
the second book, Change Your
Mind which is--
>> REGINA: I love that book.
>> SPINA: Thank you.
It's actually a user manual
and step-by-step process
of deprogramming the
limiting beliefs,
actually seeing what they
are, and then actually imbuing
your life and creating your life
from what is germane to you.
>> REGINA: Yes.
And most of us think we're
doing that, but we're not.
And there was a time
when you weren't either.
So let's go ahead
and let people get
to know you a little bit
through your backstory,
because it's really
quite extraordinary.
Because you use the power of
mind, the nature of your being
came to do this, because you
have to have a good party trick
to get people to pay attention.
And it took you to
the doorstep of death.
>> SPINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
It did.
It took the party trick as
far as it could go, really.
>> REGINA: Let's talk
about what happened to you.
>> SPINA: Yeah.
So this was-- to be exact,
it was April 23, 2016.
I had been sick
for a few months.
I'd been in the hospital
for a couple of weeks.
But on April 23, that
day, I became permanently,
air quotes, permanently
paralyzed from the chest down.
I was diagnosed with
several illnesses.
Type 1 diabetes, Hashimoto's
autoimmune disease,
pancreatitis, thyroiditis.
I was suffering from
autonomic dysreflexia,
for those that know, are
paraplegic or a quadriplegic.
Autonomic system
is what regulates
your heartbeat, your blood
pressure, your breathing,
your temperature.
Mine didn't work anymore.
>> REGINA: That's
what keeps you alive.
>> SPINA: Literally.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
So I had emergency surgery.
I had an infection.
>> REGINA: OK.
You got an infection,
and everything just
started tumbling from there.
One thing affecting another?
>> SPINA: No.
It was immediate.
I was sick for a while.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> SPINA: But then
everything shut off.
And I actually felt it
shut off the sensation
from my chest down.
I was immediately
rushed to the hospital.
They performed a surgery
called the laminectomy, which
is where they shave off some
of the spine, the vertebrae,
and then scrape off
this huge infection that
was covering from
T5 to T10, that
was predominantly T7 and T8.
And there's an MRI of this.
So you can actually see
what my spine looks like.
It was crushed.
It was paper thin.
So they performed this surgery.
When I woke up from
surgery, as you know,
I woke up in an
enlightened state.
I started explaining how I
would heal myself and so on,
and we'll get into that.
But I was told,
you cannot recover.
The damage to your
spine is so severe.
There's nothing you can do.
And all these diseases that you
have, these chronic conditions,
there's nothing you
can do about them.
You'll be on medication
the rest of your life,
and you'll be in a wheelchair
for the rest of your life.
>> REGINA: Now, the other
aspect of mind kicks in.
And as you said, you had this
enlightened moment or more.
And let's talk about
what happened after you
were told that diagnosis.
>> SPINA: Well, this even
talks about the brainwashing.
So if I would have
listened to everybody,
I would have never even
attempted to heal myself.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> SPINA: To overcome permanent
paralysis and all these
diseases.
>> REGINA: The
doctor knows best.
>> SPINA: Correct.
The white coat, the authority,
and by the way, you're all down
and they're standing over
you, talking you down to you.
So I knew what I
knew inside deeply.
And it didn't matter what
someone was saying to me.
It didn't matter what kind of
authority figure that they were.
I wasn't going to let their
opinion create the life that I
was going to build for myself.
And that's the opposite
of what brainwashing is.
I knew in that moment
that I would heal myself.
Not only did I know that
I would heal myself,
I knew the specifics
of what to do it,
which makes up the
crux of the first book.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> SPINA: So the next 100
days were spent literally,
and this is all filmed
and all documented,
un-paralyzing myself.
Video, taking of it.
I have interviews with
doctors, neurosurgeons.
When we take control
of our mind completely,
there's absolutely
nothing we can't do.
But the first thing
to learn about that
is that you can't take in
someone else's opinion,
because someone else's opinion
has nothing to do with you.
>> REGINA: And we're all
doing that all the time.
And we've been doing
that for lifetimes.
And that information is stored
within our subconscious, that
is constantly chatting
with us and helping
us react to everything.
That's why we're so
darn reactive in life.
And we don't even know why
we're reacting anymore.
We don't.
And so we're going to
talk about all that.
But you said you were
going to heal and walk out
of there in 100 days.
And you did.
>> SPINA: Mhm.
And filmed it.
>> REGINA: And filmed it.
So what I'd like
to know, the part
of the story of what those
doctors that diagnosed you
experienced as you kept healing.
>> SPINA: The very beginning,
the first 17 days of it,
there was nothing.
And the neurosurgeon
stopped coming around
because he would come in, touch
my toes, Mr. Spina, can you--
>> REGINA: Nothing happening.
>> SPINA: Yeah.
I couldn't feel anything either.
So at that point--
and he told me
there's no way to
recover from this damage.
So he stopped showing.
But it was on day 17
in the rehab facility,
and I started kicking
my leg up and down.
And after that, the healing
was not linear in any way.
It was what we could call
quantum, if you want.
At certain points over
the next roughly 83 days,
I started doing things
that the day before, I
showed no signs or ability
to be able to do so.
>> REGINA: Its function
came back online again?
>> SPINA: It was
back, like completely.
It's like, how is he
kicking his legs completely?
Yesterday, he couldn't
move his other leg.
>> REGINA: Couldn't
feel his toe.
>> SPINA: Right.
So this all has to do with
listening to myself completely
and utterly and shutting
everything else out.
And the instructions
on how to do it
is actually in the
healing technique
that I remembered when
I woke up from surgery.
And since that book's come
out, there's tens of thousands
of people have helped
themselves in ways
with their mental, emotional,
and physical health in ways
that they have been trying their
entire life that they weren't
able to do.
And now, they're able
to do it because they're
calling upon something
within themselves
that they weren't
calling upon before,
and they're realizing
what they're calling
upon doesn't have a limitation.
Everything else; the belief
systems, the ideologies,
the concepts, the information,
all contextual and all
relating to something
else, this is
the unlimited nature of the
fractal of God, of what we are.
And when tapped in,
we can do anything.
>> REGINA: So let's take the
old axiom mind over matter
and expand and refine that
considerably in terms of talking
about the nature
of how mind works.
>> SPINA: Yeah.
You started talking about this.
So we talk about
the subconscious.
So everything we ever hear,
everything that we ever see,
it gets buried within
our subconscious mind.
The subconscious mind
is responsible for 95%
of our reality creation.
So what that means
is our thinking mind
has almost no effect on the life
that we build for ourselves,
because the subconscious
is imbuing all the thought
processes to begin with.
So you only think
about the things
that we have been programmed by.
>> REGINA: Mhm.
Over many, many, many lifetimes.
>> SPINA: Many lifetimes.
It's buried within us.
It's also in our
subtle body of energy.
Our physical body is
about 30% of what we are.
When we can see
with true sight, we
would see a much
larger body of energy.
And all of these indentations
and identifications
are buried within the
subtle body of energy.
It's buried within the
subconscious, which
imbues and actually controls
the thinking mind, which means,
humanity has been limited
severely for eons of time.
And until we start to go
in, deprogram, and remove,
we don't gain what it is
that we can actually do.
This is the birth of Superman.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> SPINA: If you ask me, this is
the birth of Superman when we do
it right.
>> REGINA: So for now,
most of us are basically--
we're not responding to life and
we're not creating our lives,
even for the most part.
We are reacting
because of stimuli
that have happened, who
knows when it happened,
to something that feels somewhat
similar in this time frame,
or someone who looks
somewhat similar to someone
we reacted to maybe
lifetimes ago.
And yet you have
feelings that well up
and you start reacting to them.
And that's how we're living.
We're living reactionary lives.
>> SPINA: That's exactly right.
And if you're
reacting, that means
there's something there
that's already programmed
because you're reacting.
So when we get triggered,
getting triggered,
this automatic
reaction state, the key
is to go into the trigger.
Because a trigger
is a collapsing
of consciousness and a
constriction of energy.
So if you can go into
where the trigger is,
realize what it is, the
exponential growth in terms
of no longer
reacting, and now we
can respond in a
completely different way,
create a completely
different life,
has to do with
recognizing the trigger
and understanding
what it actually is.
Not getting upset at the person
who said this or did this,
but going deep within
yourself, understanding
why do I feel this way and
why do I think this way.
And start to uncover the
beliefs, the concepts,
the ideologies that we
are aligning ourselves
with that we're unaware
of because we never
ask these questions.
>> REGINA: You're right.
>> SPINA: Until we do
that, we'll only react like
in a program.
And if we want to change
our life, we can't react.
We have to respond from a
place of new possibilities
that are outside of the
programs of the subconscious
patterned egoic mind.
>> REGINA: Yes.
And at the same time, we
have to have love and respect
for the subconscious,
which carries forward
from lifetime to lifetime,
just like our mind.
I mean, they're paired.
This comes for a reason.
And I think it's important.
We're going to give the
subconscious its due to say,
it is there for our survival.
You've been stung by
this before, you've
eaten that before.
Boom.
You died.
So it's there to just give you
the warning signs of the things
that hurt you, harmed you,
traumatized you in the past,
and some of the good stuff, too.
There is some juice in there.
Sometimes you're drawn
to the same thing
over and over due to
a pleasure response
coming from the subconscious.
But by and large,
it's there to help
us basically stay embodied
in the physical world,
wouldn't you say?
>> SPINA: Yeah.
Without question.
Wait until we discover that
the subconscious is actually
where the Akashic actually is.
>> REGINA: Yes.
OK.
We're going to totally go off
this script and go on to--
let's follow where you just were
until we actually analyze this.
Now, you were born wired to
do your due diligence all
the way through, when it
comes to understanding
the nature of mind and
its effect on our reality,
our physical world.
So you decided to do an
experiment at one point
where everything that
you felt and did,
you were going to
write down, and then
you were going to ask
yourself questions about it.
Write down to, well, why
am I combing my hair?
Let's talk about
how far you went
in terms of trying to
understand and then reprogram
the subconscious with these
exercises, just for now.
>> SPINA: Yeah.
I feel like, Regina, I
went as far as I could go.
So in other words,
just what you said.
Every single thing I was
doing, I was writing down
and I would ask myself the
question, why am I doing it.
And what I discovered is
that the first answer to
was a justification.
Like, why am I brushing my hair?
Because it's a mess.
That's the answer.
But that's not my
core motivation.
My hair is probably a mess.
My core motive--
>> REGINA: No.
It's beautiful.
>> SPINA: What is
my core motivation?
What I found out
is that the core
of why I was brushing my
hair, the real reason why
I was doing it, is because
I get a sense of self
from other people's
opinion of me.
Now, that has nothing
to do with the real me.
That has to do with everything
being focused outward.
So in other words,
at that moment,
I realized that I just
discovered something
so profound that here's
an activity that I
do over and over again, and
I never really understood
why I was doing it.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> SPINA: And the
truth of the matter is,
it had everything to
do with everybody else,
and it had nothing
to do with me.
And this is what I
mean about discovering,
when is it going
to be your life?
The only time it's your life
is when you discover everything
that you're doing
that isn't germane,
is it not coming from you.
>> REGINA: It's not coming from
your soul, higher mind impulse.
>> SPINA: That's it.
And that's the reactionary.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> SPINA: This is
when we lead our life,
and it feels empty
and it feels hollow.
And even when we achieve a goal
that we've been working for
so long and so on and we
finally get it, and we're like,
it's kind of empty.
>> REGINA: Is that all there is?
>> SPINA: That's because that
dream didn't come from you.
That dream came from mom, dad,
society, clergy, the internet,
whatever.
That's why it was completely
and utterly unfulfilling.
It didn't really come from you.
And we can't change that until
we understand and discover
everything that we're doing
that doesn't come from us.
And the only way to do that is
to ask, why am I doing this?
Why do I feel this way?
You get to the core motivation.
And what we're going to
discover, believe it or not,
we're going to discover that
roughly, 99.9% of everything
that we do is a program.
It doesn't come from us.
We are not in tune
with who we are.
We're not leading the life that
we know that we're capable of.
We're not experiencing
joy, happiness, meaning,
fulfillment every moment.
Why?
Because everything
we're doing is to serve
something and someone else.
And this is the
birth of Superman.
Once we start to understand
this and remove the programs,
take out the garbage,
as I like to say,
once we take out
the garbage, we're
going to realize what's inside.
And it's whole, complete, full.
Everything is within us.
Our ultimate sense of self and
what it is that we can create
is what we are.
But until we stop
running programs
and until we start addressing
it, it can't happen.
We recycle experiences.
This even relates
to civilizations.
The building, and the
crumbling of civilizations.
This even relates
to incarnations.
Having incarnations
and they're over,
and we never actually became
self-realized and enlightened.
And we didn't really realize
what we're actually capable of.
The subconscious mind
is the treasure chest.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> SPINA: It absolutely
the treasure chest.
>> REGINA: It is.
>> SPINA: And hopefully that
second book, Change Your Mind,
what I talk about is the
treasure map as how to get
to the treasure chest.
>> REGINA: Yes.
OK.
So here we are now.
So what do you think
is happening right now
at this period in history, that
we are having the opportunity
to-- grasp the opportunity to
be able to become sovereign
once again, because we
haven't been for so long?
>> SPINA: Yeah.
It's so if we think
of consciousness,
kind of going in cycles.
And I always use the
analogy of like a flower.
So a flower comes up and
then finally fully blooms.
But then it undergoes
the same process.
OK.
Humanity is at this moment where
we're just starting to do this.
So the only way to fully
bloom, the only way
to actually become
who and what--
the only way for the caterpillar
to become the butterfly
is that the old ways of
being must be destroyed.
>> REGINA: And they are.
>> SPINA: And those old ways of
being have to do with the belief
system, the concepts, the
ideologies of leading a life
that has nothing to do with
who and what we really are.
We're at a critical
moment in the evolution
of human consciousness, that
we can no longer evolve ourself
through beliefs.
Through anything outside of it.
It must be tangible,
felt-sense, and experiential.
That is the only way.
You can't evolve
your consciousness
through things like beliefs.
And beliefs for me,
metaphysically, by definition,
are disempowering because any
belief always has its landing
spot outside of yourself.
For example, I believe
in a heaven out there.
There is nothing outside
of our consciousness.
God is within our consciousness.
So by operating with beliefs,
the evolution and the evolution
of consciousness ceases.
And what we get is a
repeat of civilizations
that don't come into a full
state of enlightenment.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> SPINA: And that's actually
what we're seeing right now.
Right now, that's
what we're seeing.
This clamping down by fostering
more and more information
to program, so we
never go within
and realize what it is that
you and I are talking about.
>> REGINA: Attempting
to keep the bud closed.
But it's struggling to open.
It's trying to open--
>> SPINA: You got it.
>> REGINA: --in all of
us, because the prevailing
consciousness is demanding
that our little buds open.
>> SPINA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Which means you got
that light and dark fight going
on.
Our viewers know about that.
So one of the things
you just mentioned
is, by going with these
beliefs and programs,
depending on the society and
time you've been born into,
they're very limited.
Let's look at what
society and community can
look like when all those
restrictions are taken off
and people begin to
go into communion.
Talk about how
they get there too,
with higher mind, which
translates for the soul, which
is here for a reason.
It came to learn and express
things and experience things,
and we don't even get to
touch it because of this.
So I know I opened up a lot.
Go for it.
[LAUGHTER]
>> SPINA: So there's
a really fast, simple,
and tangible way to put
ourselves at the absolute
starting line of that.
And it's so simple, it boggles
the lower consciousness
because the lower consciousness
complicates everything,
because it dissects everything.
But the truth of the
matter is, if we simply
pretend that we just arrived
here, no past, no future.
>> REGINA: Mhm.
>> SPINA: If we just
get here now, now,
we can actually operate
from a limitless sense.
Because if we rely on
the past, the future
is already created for us.
So if we want to create from
a place of infinite potential.
We literally have to pretend
that we just arrived here.
No past and no future.
>> REGINA: You know, when
you're talking and saying that,
I'll tell you what's going on
in my head when I'm seeing, OK,
so I just landed here and I'm
fascinated with butterflies,
and I say, I'm going to
make butterfly dresses.
That's what I want to do.
I want to dress myself
and others so we
can look like butterflies.
It sounds silly.
But the fact is,
why the heck not?
>> SPINA: Well, yeah.
If it's coming from--
>> REGINA: From you.
From pure inspiration and joy.
>> SPINA: That's what
I'm talking about.
You're not basing upon what
you can do based upon a past.
Like what's possible?
>> REGINA: Anything is possible.
>> SPINA: That's what I mean.
The superhuman comes from that.
Our ability to create an
enlightened civilization
will come from what I just said.
If it's based upon
a past, the future
is already dictated because
it's based upon a past.
It's limited.
Absolutely limited.
From the space of infinite
potential and infinite
possibilities is
actually our destiny
to become self-realized
enlightened
and create an
enlightened society.
It can't be based upon the past.
It has to be based upon
unlimited potential, which
is available in every moment.
>> REGINA: It does.
And see now, a lot of
people would argue with you
and then say, OK.
Fine.
But how does society function?
Who's going to fix the plumbing?
Well, there are people
that love problem solving.
There are people that
love looking at how
that all works
and ties together,
and how you clear it out and
make everything flow again.
That's part of a desire of
some humans to know that
and to do that and
to express that.
So I think the notion that
just because something
might be challenging for another
person means nobody wants
to do it, that's not true.
>> SPINA: Exactly.
And also, the first thing
that we don't want to do
is rush to things
how, when, why.
>> REGINA: Right.
Yes.
>> SPINA: So we want to
eliminate these words that
stifle creativity.
And so the lower
consciousness immediately
goes to something to grasp
at a sense of security.
Well, how am I going to do that?
The lower consciousness does
that because it's disconnected
from the source of knowing.
>> REGINA: It's
trying to survive.
>> SPINA: It doesn't
know anything.
So it's always
looking for direction.
So as soon as we get the how,
the when, the why, the trying,
that is when the
lower consciousness
has taken over the higher mind.
So we want to leave
that to the side
and let the creativity
start to come through,
because in the
strangest sense, the how
is none of your business.
Let the universe
start to coalesce.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> SPINA: This has to
do with manifestation.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
And we're going
to get into that.
We have like five hours
of topics to crunch
into 45 minutes, but go ahead.
>> SPINA: Yeah.
So what we have to do is
vibrate in a certain way.
We have to embody that.
And then the energies,
starting with our body--
our physical body of energy
and our subtle body of energy,
and this is part of
how healing works,
we'll start to adhere itself
and mold itself to the frequency
that you're emanating.
So the how and all these kind
of things start to coalesce.
They start to come into fruition
without you focusing on them.
The focus is on embodying
and the creation.
Everything else will
start to come into play.
If we start putting our focus on
outside of ourself with the how,
we lose the power
and the efficacy
of maintaining that frequency.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
>> SPINA: That's what the
lower consciousness does.
How, when--
>> REGINA: And that's
where humanity lives.
>> SPINA: Correct.
>> REGINA: And we're
trying to bust out of that
because it's time.
So there are words that
are really important that
need to be tossed in there,
which is joy and desire.
So just like a silly little
example, if you've just
arrived on the planet, wow.
Butterfly.
Pretty.
I want to do that.
If we could, for
ourselves in a meditation,
even, just set ourselves aside
and imagine that very thing you
said, that could be
very helpful in seeing
what it is that just
brings joy to us by walking
through the world.
And that would start giving
us a clue to who we truly are.
Right?
>> SPINA: 100%.
And I just want
to demystify what
things like enlightenment and
self-realization, which they're
actually the same thing.
And enlightenment
and self-realization
is direct communion
with your higher self.
So in other words, you know who
you are, where you come from,
and you have access
to that entire body
of energy and consciousness.
You know about your
past lives, you
know about so-called
future lives.
You're in full communion.
And the underlying energy
behind that is a state of joy.
Absolute joy.
I think enlightenment
has become conceptualized
and theorized, Regina.
>> REGINA: It's become a burden.
Trying to seek it is
almost a burden for people.
>> SPINA: A burden itself.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> SPINA: What we're going to
realize is that enlightenment is
the letting go of everything.
It's not constructive.
You're not adding
on to anything that
is already whole and complete.
The soul is whole and complete.
Adding on will only take away.
So enlightenment is actually
the removal of everything.
Everything falls away.
There was a moment
in the hospital
where I was just sitting there,
wasn't trying to do anything.
>> REGINA: This is when you
could or couldn't do anything.
>> SPINA: No.
This was like four
days after surgery.
Paralyzed from the chest down.
Body not working.
Can't feel it.
And I'm just sitting
there at peace.
And there was this moment.
And it's tangible.
I remember it like
it just happened.
There was this moment where all
knowledge, everything that we've
been working towards
gaining and understanding
of all this information,
spiritual otherwise
it doesn't matter, knowledge.
And then ignorance,
the other side
that we're always trying to
compensate for and fill up
by acquiring knowledge, in this
one single moment, knowledge
and ignorance were seen
as the exact same thing.
And they both fell away.
And the only thing that remained
was total clarity and complete
connection with
this knowingness,
this deep knowingness
of everything.
So it was the removal.
The dropping away.
And that is how I was
able to rebuild my body.
How I was able to
rebuild my life.
How I was able to create from
this space of infinite potential
because I wasn't trying
to adhere to knowledge.
I wasn't trying to
compensate for a lack of it
because the self is
whole and complete.
It's everything.
And once we attune
body mind to the self,
there is no limitation.
Joy, happiness, grace,
completeness, purpose,
fulfillment, compassion,
power, courageousness.
It's all there, and it
just flows unabated.
You don't even have to try.
>> REGINA: And it's so weird,
because we're, as a species,
in our evolutionary arc at
this moment, caught between--
we tend to, as humans
learn through pain,
but we're motivated by joy
and pleasure and desire.
That's what pulls us forward.
But it seems like to have
a hammer over the head
to let go of the things
that don't work, i.e., pain.
So this process of letting
go, for example, that you're
talking about, let's look at
that through the framework
of manifestation.
Because everybody's
trying-- you're
trying to gain something through
the process of manifestation.
And by and large, I'm sorry,
but a lot of the way it's taught
is all wrong.
So you and I are on
the same page on this.
So you say it.
>> SPINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
So it is an embodiment.
So whatever frequency
we're emanating,
the universe will say,
yes, match it, mirror it,
and amplify it.
So it has to do
with the embodiment.
It is not how much
you want something.
So this really
freaks people out.
So if you want something; a
house, a partner, $1 million,
it doesn't matter what it
is, and you want and want.
So if you're emanating, the
frequency of want, the universe
will just match and amplify
and say, here's more wanting,
not the manifestation
of what it is.
>> REGINA: No.
It's the frequency and feeling.
>> SPINA: It'll just
give you more want.
So what we have to
recognize is that our desire
and its fulfillment
are not separate,
and they're coming
from the same place.
Now, the only separation
that exists between them
are the beliefs,
concepts, and ideologies
that we've put between them.
They don't actually exist.
It's all one thing.
There's actually
nothing separating.
So allowing yourself to feel
that, to be that, and then
take the inspired actions
from that frequency
is actually how you
can manifest anything.
And it doesn't
matter what it is.
I've gone from not being able
to move my body, feel my body,
to putting my body
back together,
to having not a single
dollar in my bank account,
because every dollar that was
left went to medical bills,
to be able to manifest lots
of money without a problem.
So it has to do with
what I just said.
It's not wanting, it's not
wishing, it's not hoping,
it's not asking
for dispensation,
or reaching out for
some other being.
It's what it is that
you embody, the universe
will match and amplify, and
that's how manifestation works.
>> REGINA: You were just
talking about how, oftentimes,
people will look to others to
find out what's their direction
going to be and rather
than looking to themselves.
We'll turn to psychics
and other people
to tell us how our life is
going to turn out, which
I appreciate a good psychic.
There are moments when I
just-- my mind is grinding
and I'm thinking, let me just
get an outside point of view
and I can appreciate that.
OK.
But in reality,
we're the creators.
So let's talk about
prophecy, because right now,
some of the most popular,
you know I'm going to say,
podcasts on YouTube
are all about prophecy.
Everybody's prophesying how
this whole chaotic thing
is going to turn out.
So let's talk about why
prophecy isn't actually working
all that well right now.
What the underpinnings of it
are, because we're just talking
about fields of potential.
>> SPINA: Yeah.
So the most important
thing to look at
is that destiny is
always being written.
It's a moment-to-moment based
upon where your attention is
going, your frequency,
how you're emanating,
and what it is that
your desire is.
So there's really
no such thing to me.
And I understand
these things tangibly.
So destiny is always being
written all the time.
Now, if we keep putting our
attention on what's popular.
And what's popular, fear sells.
So the spiritual community has
learned from mainstream media
that fear sells.
So if you put something on there
about doom and gloom, chaos,
madness, we get lots of--
>> REGINA: That's probably about
90% of the YouTube videos--
>> SPINA: If not more--
>> REGINA: --of a
spiritual nature,
are all about a clickbait that
has to do with fear and gloom.
>> SPINA: Yeah.
And that's why I did
a video actually just
eviscerating that whole thing.
>> REGINA: Yes.
Agree.
>> SPINA: So let's talk about
what actually happens when you
do that.
OK.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> SPINA: So when you put your
attention on something that you
don't want, so let's say
a doom and gloom scenario.
Chaos, madness.
And you're putting
your attention on it.
OK.
So when you put your
attention on something,
you're actually drawing
that into your beingness.
You become a container for that.
And then you hold that,
emanate that frequency,
and then build what it is
that your attention is upon.
We cannot create anything other
than what our attention is upon.
>> REGINA: What we're
resonating with.
>> SPINA: Right.
So for your
attention is on this,
guess what you're going to
hold, emanate, and then build?
That.
So these doom and
gloom prophecies
are actually user-manuals as
how to bring about these things.
If people really knew
the truth about where
these things come from--
>> REGINA: Let's talk about it.
And let's talk about--
I know you got a little thing
about bots and things, too.
>> SPINA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: We can go there.
So when we have these
podcasts, these shows,
if The algorithm is supporting
it, the first thing we should do
is question that.
Why is this so popular?
Why do they want everyone
to know about this?
Because the truth
of the matter is,
they don't want you to know
the truth about yourself,
about reality creation,
what we're talking about,
about how things really
work because they would
lose the illusion of control.
So if there's something
that's being heavily promoted,
and the algorithm is
sharing it out everywhere,
it's because they
want you to see that.
When we have someone who
shows up out of nowhere
and all of a sudden gets
millions of followers,
they're mega popular.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> SPINA: That's
because those are bots.
That's what this is.
They are promoting.
They are rigging the system
as they always rig the system.
We have to start to understand
that if it's popular,
it means the algorithm
is supporting it.
Think about what that means.
It means they want you to
put your attention on it.
>> REGINA: Oh. absolutely.
And then once that person's
out and has millions of views,
then everyone jumps on
board because they have
to have them on their podcasts.
>> SPINA: Correct.
And we don't even realize that--
I'm certainly not
going to name names.
We certainly don't
even start to realize
that some of these people
are controlled opposition.
Some of these people have--
there's little three-letter
agencies that they answer to
or they're paid to.
A lot of these
things are just bots
that are promoting these things
to make sure that we see it.
And the insidious
nature that goes
beyond what we're talking about
is that a lot of these things
actually have some
truth in them.
And this is where the hook is.
>> REGINA: Well, that
is where the hook is.
If you put a grain of truth,
a person can feel truth,
but then they get this
conflicted feeling.
Yeah.
That's true, but the rest of the
story is not feeling so good.
>> SPINA: That's it.
So we get this kernel of truth
that all of us recognize.
It's like, oh, that
guy, that's right.
What that guy just said.
And then everything
else packed around
it is starting to take
us all the way over here.
Now we're going to this
completely different direction.
But now we're conflicted.
It's like, yeah.
But he just said something
that I know is true.
I know it's true.
But now he's directing
our-- she/he whatever,
directing our attention in this
complete-- so in other words,
the bigger understanding of
the truth will remain hidden.
So we get a kernel, we get a
nugget, we get a little bit.
And that's the hook.
The controlled
opposition are the ones
that get the most
views, especially
in the spiritual community.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> SPINA: And they're like, oh,
I'm going to have so-and-so on.
And he's going to
talk about whatever,
or she's going to talk about
aliens and this and that.
It's like, you just don't really
understand what's going on.
You're getting this much.
>> REGINA: A lot of
it's distraction, too.
>> SPINA: That's the point.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> SPINA: And to distract
us from ourselves.
>> REGINA: From ourselves.
>> SPINA: And onto some story
that has nothing to do with what
is.
>> REGINA: So let's talk about
the discretionary process,
because everybody watching this
has cruised YouTube and has
gotten sucked in through
some clickbait to one or two
or hundreds of these shows.
So where does our
true discretion
come in as higher mind?
>> SPINA: Oh.
A great question.
OK.
So This takes some
level of detachment.
So we can't be caught
up in identifying
with what we're seeing.
So number 1, how do I do that?
The idea that I
always say is pretend
you're watching a boring movie.
We've all watched
a boring movie.
We don't care what happens.
So we're just sitting
back and just watching.
And we're not--
>> REGINA: Emotionally detached.
>> SPINA: You got it.
You got it.
So with that detachment, will
give us a level of discernment.
Through discernment,
we'll get some clarity,
and we'll start to
know what feels right
and what doesn't feel right.
But it's only through
that detachment.
That is the real key.
We can't be caught up
in any of these things.
That's number 1.
Number 2, what's out there
is not useful in the sense
that it doesn't give you
prescriptive protocols.
It gives concepts,
ideologies, beliefs.
It's the mentalization, Regina.
Everything has become
a mentalization--
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> SPINA: --and
not the embodiment.
And that's what's missing.
It doesn't matter what
you mentally understand.
It's what you can tangibly
felt sense experience.
Is the only thing that matters.
So what we're getting is,
beliefs, concepts, somewhat
some truth, some with no truth.
And it's just a mentalization.
We can mentally understand
that lifting weights makes
you stronger, and we understand
that by lifting weights,
it tears the muscle
off the bone,
it reattaches
bigger and stronger.
But don't you still have to go
to the gym to get the benefit?
Or is it just because I mentally
understand how it works,
I can get the benefit.
>> REGINA: Right.
Right.
>> SPINA: This is what I mean.
So we're getting all these
mental understandings,
but there's no tangible
felt sense benefit.
And that's what the shift is.
>> REGINA: That speaks
to the embodied nature
of our receptivity
to information.
Because now, we're starting
to realize that this
is a divine tuning fork.
What a complex system
the human being is.
Multidimensional,
complex system.
And your body knew right off
the bat that grain of truth.
That's like, yeah.
I feel that it settles here.
And immediately when you start
being taken down another road
it, you know it.
You feel it.
Your guts feel it,
your heart feels it.
So what do you do there?
Now you started feeling it.
You're using your body.
You're embodying your truth.
Now what?
>> SPINA: Take your attention
off what doesn't resonate
immediately.
Immediately.
Because anything that
doesn't resonate with you,
is not in alignment with you,
is actually not good for you.
Period.
It's taking you out of whack.
It's taking you out of alignment
with your own inner signal.
And that's what the
ego mind identity is.
The human character.
And from a purely
physics perspective,
the ego mind identity, the EMI,
is electromagnetic interference.
So it's everything that
we're attuned to that
isn't our true signal.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> SPINA: And this is
what leads us astray.
And this also pertains to
beliefs, concepts, ideologies,
everything that we're
being bombarded with.
We're creating more and
more of a fake character,
and we're less and less in
tune with who and what we are.
>> REGINA: And yet at the same
time, people feel like, yeah.
But I have to open my news up.
I have to at least
stay informed.
I can't be ignorant of all these
things happening in the world.
[LAUGHTER]
>> SPINA: Yeah.
I've heard that a lot.
>> REGINA: A million times.
>> SPINA: You've probably
heard that a lot.
OK.
Up to a point, yes.
So I'll give a tangible
real world example.
When I get up in the
morning, and my wife
will laugh about this,
really, the first thing I do
is I look at the weather.
The weather app on my phone.
I just like the weather.
So I'm like, OK.
Chance of rain maybe,
or whatever it is.
That's enough for me.
That's it.
I know that there's
a chance of rain.
Maybe I'll bring an
umbrella if I go out.
And that's the end of that.
I don't keep looking at it,
looking at it, diving in.
>> REGINA: Hour to hour.
It looks like it's going
to be better at 11.
>> SPINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
Let me go to like
seven other people that
are talking about
the weather and let
me get their information.
Let me see what
they have to say.
I get what I need in that
moment, and I move on.
And then the rest is
about me being who I am.
So in terms of understanding
what's going on,
never occupy your mind with
anything that you can't control.
>> REGINA: Good idea.
>> SPINA: That will
clear everything up.
Never occupy your mind with
anything you can't control.
>> REGINA: OK.
And I agree with that.
I'm not really big on
overthinking things at all.
Maybe under-thinking, it seems
at times, but not overthinking.
But what happens
when you say, yeah.
But I am a responsible
co-creator in this world,
and if these problems are
happening, I need to know,
and I need to do
my part in this.
I need to do my part to help
heal and grassroots grow
a new reality.
So now your mind is occupied
and it's pretty busy.
Like, how can I contribute?
What do I do?
>> SPINA: I think that
it starts at home.
So in other words, you know
like when you're on the plane,
because I was just on the plane.
So they say if there's some
problem with like the cabin
pressure, the masks.
Don't they always say,
put yours on first
before you help anybody else?
>> REGINA: Yeah.
True.
>> SPINA: OK.
So we need to clear up
our own house first.
I mean, are most of us in a
state of cosmic consciousness,
in a state of joy and a state
of perpetual fulfillment,
balance, harmony,
constantly in touch
with our will, our
courageousness, our forgiveness,
and our compassion?
>> REGINA: Of course.
That's the world we live in.
>> SPINA: Right.
Right.
So if we're not
working in that way,
why are we focusing on over here
and over here and over here?
Those are the roles that we
think that we're playing.
Well, I'm an empath
and I feel everything,
and I need to do this, or I'm
a starseed and I'm here to do--
>> REGINA: But a lot of people
take a lot of comfort in feeling
that they're an empath and
they're supposed to feel
everything, but often,
it leads to-- well,
kind of like happened
to your body,
it can lead to
that kind of thing.
>> SPINA: So let's say someone
calls himself an empath,
because I've heard this
a billion times too.
So that means they can only be
in accordance with the concept
that they have of what
it means to be an empath.
They have imprisoned themselves.
It means they
can't operate or be
outside of what their
idea is, of what it
means to be an empath.
>> REGINA: And you can't give
yourself permission not to feel
the pain.
>> SPINA: Correct.
And you will never see
anyone in another way other
than the context
of you viewing them
from an empath's perspective.
So not only have you
imprisoned yourself,
you've imprisoned
everybody else.
And this is what all labels do.
All labels are limitations.
And we do it for a
sense of self-identity.
I'm this.
No, you're not.
If you're the awareness of it,
that's proof that you're not it.
You're the awareness,
not what you're aware of.
Like, here's my Gaia mug.
I'm not my Gaia mug, I'm the
awareness of my Gaia mug.
I'm the awareness of the
feelings and the emotions.
I'm the awareness of
the thought process.
This labeling of ourself is the
collapsing of consciousness,
constriction of energy, and it
imprisons everybody else, too.
So we have to drop the labels.
And it doesn't matter
how big the label is,
because even the label
of ascended master
is actually a limitation,
because that means
you have to operate within
the concept of what it
means to be an ascended master.
And again, we have now
imprisoned ourselves.
So no label will
ever be big enough
to actually encompass who
and what we really are.
>> REGINA: I love it.
That's beautifully said.
You know, I wanted to get
into a lot of things with you,
but we can't.
We've only got a
couple minutes left.
So what we'll do is we'll
have you back another time,
and then we'll start
talking about the notion
of the subconscious mind
as the Akashic record
and expand on that
because people really
trash the subconscious
mind because it
does make us trigger happy
and reactionary and so forth.
But it is absolutely
essential that we
work with it to transform
ourselves into the person you're
talking about.
>> SPINA: Yeah.
As long as we don't have
the traumas and the story
of our subconscious imbuing
our conscious minds, means
we can never transcend the
programs of the subconscious.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> SPINA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: OK.
So one final thing here.
The book is called Change
Your Mind, which I love.
I actually have it in
my briefcase with me.
I love it because
it's very direct.
You talk about
yourself a bit there,
and then we talk
about what it means
to be caught in the
world of thoughts.
And thoughts are not our friend.
We always think, oh,
everyone prides themselves
on IQ and intellect.
That's OK to an extent.
And then there are poor little
kids are shoved down to a point
where they have to become
productive citizens.
So I'd like you to make a
couple comments on productivity,
and then we'll say
goodbye until next time.
>> SPINA: OK.
Well, perfect.
I'm glad you have
a copy of the book.
OK.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
I do.
>> SPINA: So productivity, I
just want everyone to let this
land for a moment
without reacting.
Only a slave thinks in
terms of productivity.
Now, talk about
subconscious programming.
>> REGINA: People are
like, what do you mean?
I'm no slave.
>> SPINA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: But I have
to be productive.
Right?
>> SPINA: Right.
So only a slave
quantifies its existence
in terms of productivity.
And that's because
it is so deeply
ingrained in our subconscious
mind and our body of energy.
It is not about productivity.
We are a human being.
Beingness.
So what we really want to do is
marinate within our beingness
and then put our beingness into
our doingness as a flow state,
not through, I got to do
this, I got to do that.
I got to do this,
I got to do that.
This is actually-- like
I said, the only a slave
quantifies its existence
through productivity,
and we will only engender
more people to follow that.
Part of this has to do with
only the supremely disciplined
are free.
Because unless you are
supremely disciplined,
you will be a slave to every
thought, every bodily sensation,
everything that comes
across your way.
So it's actually we don't
foster self-discipline.
We don't foster self-control.
We foster productivity
and staying busy.
But there's no quality
of life in that.
Most of us have
realized at some point,
I'm running myself ragged.
My wife, I'm running myself--
it's like I don't even enjoy it.
Exactly.
Right?
So if we can become disciplined
about where our attention is
and where our energy
is, those are the people
that are actually free.
The truly disciplined
people for absolutely free,
because they're not a
slave to every belief,
concept, thought, bodily
sensation, societal programming,
and brainwashing.
When we start to work with
ourselves and change our mind,
shows exactly how
to do it, we start--
>> REGINA: Yeah.
It's very direct.
>> SPINA: --we start
to work with ourselves.
In that way, we will
realize that we're free
and that we can actually create
the life that we truly desire.
That it actually
takes self-control
and self-discipline.
That's the key.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Self-inquiry you have.
Like you did, why am
I combing my hair?
Oh.
I want people to like me.
>> SPINA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: You have to go a
few layers to get to that one.
But it's true with every thought
we have, every action we do.
So that is discipline.
>> SPINA: Yes.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
RJ, wonderful to meet
you in the flesh.
>> SPINA: Likewise.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
And we will come back and
have this conversation,
and we'll start moving through
some of what you mentioned
in your book, By
Way of Protocols,
to quickly start annihilating
some of these past beliefs
and programs.
>> SPINA: That sounds like fun.
I look forward to it.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> SPINA: Thank you, Regina.
>> REGINA: You're welcome.
For more of RJ's work,
you can visit a site
at ascendthefrequencies.com.
You'll be able to connect with
his courses and much more there.
Time to take back sovereignty
over our own minds
with a little discipline.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.
[THEME MUSIC]